## Linear_downscaling

#### Katrina Wheelan
#### July 31, 2020
#### NCAR

(IN PROGRESS)

This repository contains custom Jupyter notebooks, Python scripts, and batch scripts for linearly downscaling climate data.

**Directories**:
 * *notebooks/* - Jupyter notebooks for interactive/customizable downscaling (these need to be updated)
   * *Precip_DownScaling.ipynb* - A Jupyter notebook that linearly downscales precipitation data using large scale predictors. The notebook employs a logistic model to predict yes/no precip and then a linear model to predict intensity. It has an optional stochastic component to correct the distribution.

   * *Temp_Downscaling_MonthlyModel.ipynb* - similarly downscales maximum temperature data using large scale predictors. The model controls by month, employing 3 linear methods: (1) manual linear regression, using the same predictors but different coefficients for each month; (2) LASSO linear regress using a single model; (3) LASSO regression conditioned on month. The chosen model also includes an optional stochastic component (an approximation of the "variance inflation" for SDSM).

   * *Graphs.ipynb* - Shows various metrics to compare different models

 * *pythonScripts* - A folder to store scripts called by bash scripts
    * *regress.py* - Optimizable Python file to do regression for downscaling
    * *regression_tools.py* - A module of functions to perform the necessary steps for downscaling
    * *plotting.py* - A module of plotting functions for the modeled data
    * *SDSM_process.py* - A short script I wrote to plot SDSM data.
    * *setings.txt* - Currently does nothing; I want to edit regress.py to read in settings from this file

 * *bashScripts/* - Contains batch scripts for submission to the NCAR supercomputer

 * *SDSM_p1/* - Plots and raw data from running SDSM for daily maximum temperature on p1 (lat = 38.125, lon = -101.875) with variance inflation = 1
    * *plots/*
      * *Compare* - A few plots comparing the Python output to SDSM output for predictions  
      * *SDSM/* - Plots of just the SDSM output
    * *betas_python.txt* - the coefficients generated by the python program
    * *betas.txt* - the coefficients generated by SDSM (a txt version of the PAR file)
    * *tmax_p1_output.OUT* - SDSM OUT file of weather generation (variance inflation = 1)
    * *tmax_p1_output.SIM* - SDSM metadata file
    * *tmax_p1.PAR* - SDSM PAR file of betas
